hey we landed on the moon
we sailed around the world romeo met
juliet
hey it's hard to imagine that there are
creatures out there
who saw it all happen immortal animals
well almost
glass sponges are weird little creatures
that sit in one place for
thousands of years from their favorite
spot under the sea
they witness the first europeans
crossing over to the americas
they can live up to 15 000 years and
what's even cooler
is that they can control their aging
process speed it up or
slow it down they have a glass-like
exoskeleton for protection
lobsters can grow back a limb if they
lose it and they're basically immortal
they produce an unlimited number of
enzymes that keeps their dna
young forever and they just keep on
growing
that means they outgrow their own shells
they have to shed their exoskeleton
every now and then
and upgrade to a bigger one the largest
lobster ever caught
was 44 pounds off the coast of nova
scotia
scientists think this large lobster was
around 100 years old
it was around when edison invented the
phonograph
this next creature is a mix between a
jellyfish and a tree branch
each end of the hydra has a ringed foot
and it spends its days
chilling by lakes and rivers its
tentacles grab onto tasty snacks that
swim past it
so what's the secret to its immortality
that's something everyone wants to know
the hydra has the ability to renew its
stem cells
scientists have been trying to do that
for years they can actually slow down
their aging process
now these little sea creatures are red
sea urchins
they sit on seaweed in shallow waters
and are immortal
well we haven't been studying them long
enough to know for sure
but scientists say they only grow in
size not in age
what well they sort of stay like little
baby urchins but grow in size
adult baby urchin okay these little
babies can reach around 100 years old
even 200. the slowest on the list
the giant tortoise they can reach 200
years old
and one of the oldest is jonathan he's
technically the oldest crawling land
animal he was born in 1832 and
lives it up on a remote island called
saint helena
jonathan's been through a lot he's seen
the very first american skyscraper
the eiffel tower oh yeah
he's also lived through every single
world series starting when he was 71
years old
now he can't see too well and he's lost
his sense of smell
but he's still going strong
back to the oceans and the greenland
shark it's been known to be the longest
living vertebrae
and can live more than 400 years
swimming around for that long in the
deep dark cold ocean
means these sharks are tough they're
able to withstand
insane water pressure sharks are one of
the only creatures today that haven't
been affected too much by evolution
many sharks have been around since the
dinosaurs and haven't changed much
scientists found out that they grow
around a half an inch per year
so with a little bit of quick math they
can easily find out the age of these
tough sharks
imagine seeing a shark that's older than
the usa
this next creature is probably the most
durable indestructible
and cutest on the list it's called a
tardigrade
but scientists nickname it water bear
because
i guess it looks like one but it's not
exactly bear size
it has eight legs and hands with a
strange little nose
and these bizarre microscopic creatures
are indestructible
[Music]
they're known to live in the most
extreme places on the planet
they're fine with temperatures as high
as 300 and as low as minus
330. volcanoes frozen desert nights
they can even handle radiation and
massive amounts of pressure in the
deepest parts of the ocean
they can even survive the vacuum in
space no tiny little spacesuit or
anything
that would be cute enough so far they've
survived 10 days on the outside of a
spaceship
but they could probably do longer
tardigrades might be able to outlive
humans if there's some sort of worldwide
catastrophe
microscopic organisms in charge of the
planet
wonder what that would look like whether
it's all the volcanoes erupting at once
or another ice age or even another pesky
asteroid
tardigrades probably wouldn't even
notice scientists are studying them to
see if they can help us with some next
level biotech
now just for fun here's the mayfly this
poor little insect doesn't even make it
past 24 hours on average
females and males can make it to a
whopping two days old
talk about living in the moment these
little flies grow in swarms
and are known to have one of the
shortest lifespans of any creature
but as a species well they've been
around for hundreds of millions of years
jellyfish have discovered the fountain
of youth and surprise surprise
it's been inside them all along not
inspirational poster style but literally
it's always been inside them jellyfish
are able to reverse their aging process
whenever they want
imagine you're swimming along and then
you think to yourself gee
i kind of want to be eight again and
poof there you are
who wouldn't want to go back to being
eight that's how jellyfish stay young
and live stress free
these brainless and boneless creatures
can turn the clock back
any time they want as long as no one
bothers them
they're super chill just floating in
whatever direction the current takes
them
like uh go with the flow this creature
looks like something right out of a
sci-fi movie
and you could say it has sort of alien
features
the giant wida outweighs a mouse and is
considered one of the biggest insects
out there
you find these big bugs in new zealand
while jellyfish can reverse their aging
process
some members of the wida family can come
back to life
talk about superpowers if they get
completely frozen
they start to make special proteins that
stop their organs from getting ruined
after whatever amount of time they're
frozen they can be thought out and
brought back to life
like nothing ever happened in fact the
giant wida has
ears on its knees in its front legs and
because it can resurrect
it's also called the zombie bug
planaria are flatworms that are unique
apart from being practically immortal
they're the ultimate regeneration
machines for lost body parts
if you take one of them and divide its
body into 10 parts
you'll end up with 10 new plenaria you
keep dividing them up
they'll keep multiplying even though
they're usually less than an inch long
imagine if we could figure out how to do
that
would that be a way for us to live
forever or would we
end up with a totally crazy world with
copies of everyone walking around
how about the world's fastest relay team
four identical usain bolts
now clamps have been around for a really
long time
scientists have discovered that they can
live up to 400 years old
these little shelled creatures are the
ones that create those shiny little
pearls everyone loves
a clam will go into action mode when a
parasite gets inside
the clam tries to cover the parasite
with a bunch of special chemicals
the same ones it uses to make the inside
of its shell
that's when the magic starts to happen
when these chemicals harden up they make
a shiny glossy pearl
the more chemicals the bigger the pearl
now this long slippery looking creature
lives deep in the caves of europe
om can live up to be 100 years old
it spends its days hunting for little
insects snails and crabs
with its tiny front arms and wriggling
snake-like body
its skin is so pale that some locals
even call it the human fish
hey wait a minute the om is almost blind
but it can still detect light it just
mostly does it through its skin
like other blind animals it has a
supercharged sense of hearing and smell
it gets its distinct look from those
little red gills around its neck